This War of Mine is a war survival game based on the siege of Sarajevo 
from 1992-1996 during the Bosnian war. 波斯尼亚 战争过程
生存的方式：
让你的雇员发挥最高的作用，厨师做饭，手工艺者造房子，打架的打架等等。是耗费最低。
第三天给他们吃饭，奇数天进食，其他日子多带回零件
多睡觉，睡眠充足少生病，吃饱喝足少生病，否则拿钱换药品就太不划算了
到医院给各位对员换药
战争期间两个看守才够。

营帐：
近战武器和远程武器保护作用方面作用相同
第一夜和冬天比较少会有袭击，尽管睡觉

建造：
目的导向型，只建造必要的东西。
木头和零件最好不要做燃料，烧书或者砍家具作燃料。
电子器件在后期真的很难找
从第五天到第十五天建造高级的工具
先实用后享受

交易:
Franko第三第四天来到这里，并且每隔三天一次
前期糖和草药是重要的交易物品
在游戏当中有几个trading spot,以防备过去的物资不足

记笔记:
[02.6] Tips for scavenging:

1. Take notes. Write down what you need to take when you go scavenging. 
Also write down what you leave behind at a scavenge spot, so you know where 
to look when you need a specific thing (such as electrical parts, 
fertilizer, etc.).

2. Read the details about a scavenge spot, paying attention to the danger 
level as well as the available resources. The game even shows you a 
percentage level, explaining to what degree you have obtained all the 
available items laying around. 

3. Try to bring all of the items that are scattered throughout the whole 
location back to 1 point at the start of the location. This will make it 
much easier to get an overview of what the location has available and saves 
a lot of time when you get back there to collect more. So for example, when 
you enter the school, there is immediately a small side table you can 
search through. Go around the whole school and store everything in this 
side table to make your life easier. 

4. Put the amount of materials you need in your backpack, then use the 
remaining spots for either food (raw meat, veggies and water for 
consumption) or medicine/valuables (for trading).

5. Always try to let the survivor with the most backpack space go out to 
scavenge, unless they are sick. This will maximize your progress, since 
more materials means you can build more things. 

6. If you don’t bring a shovel, you can dig away a maximum of 2 piles in 
one night in order to have enough time for digging and scavenging. In some 
cases, such as for the school, this is plenty. Also try to see if you can 
make your way around an obstacle (barred door/locked door/pile) before 
wasting precious gear on them. 

建造顺序:
对于绝大多数组合和搭配都是可以通用的
